# BIOMD0000000052: MODEL8177704759

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000052.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000052.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


Brands2002 - Monosaccharide-casein systems

A kinetic model of the Maillard reaction occurring in heated monosaccharide-
casein system.

This model is described in the article:

[Kinetic modeling of reactions in heated monosaccharide-casein
systems.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/12405768)

Brands CM, van Boekel MA

Journal of Agricultural and Food Chemistry. 2002, 50(23):6725-6739

Abstract:

In the present study, a kinetic model of the Maillard reaction occurring in
heated monosaccharide-casein systems was proposed. Its parameters, the
reaction rate constants, were estimated via multiresponse modeling. The
determinant criterion was used as the statistical fit criterion instead of the
familiar least squares to avoid statistical problems. The kinetic model was
extensively tested by varying the reaction conditions. Different sugars
(glucose, fructose, galactose, and tagatose) were studied regarding their
effect on the reaction kinetics. This study has shown the power of
multiresponse modeling for the unraveling of complicated reaction routes as
occur in the Maillard reaction. The iterative process of proposing a model,
confronting it with experiments, and criticizing the model was passed through
four times to arrive at a model that was largely consistent with all results
obtained. A striking difference was found between aldose and ketose sugars as
suggested by the modeling results: not the ketoses themselves but only their
reaction products were found to be reactive in the Maillard reaction.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[MODEL8177704759](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/MODEL8177704759) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


